# Abstract

Numerous pieces of evidence have indicated that microRNA (miRNA) plays a crucial role in a series of significant biological processes and is closely related to complex diseases. Discovering the associations between miRNAs and diseases has become an essential part of disease discovery and treatment. However, uncovering these associations via traditional experimental methods is complicated and time-consuming. Moreover, miRNAs whose expression is restricted to nonabundant cell types or specific environmental conditions could still be missed in cloning efforts. Therefore, computational approaches have been developed to complement experimental methods.

Inspired by the substantial achievements of graph neural networks (GNNs) in miRNA-disease association (MDA) prediction, we show that a simple GNN variant, specifically the Graph Convolutional Network (GCN), is capable of predicting MDA with high accuracy. First, we capture the sim- ilarity features of miRNAs and diseases by integrating multi-source information. We then construct a graph where each node (miRNAs or diseases) has its own feature representation. Finally, GCN is combined with a multi-layer perceptron to complete the final prediction. The experimental results show that under 5-fold cross-validation the model can achieve AUC and AUPR values of 94.97±0.15 and 94.96±0.18, respectively. Additionally, case studies conducted on lung neoplasms, breast neoplasms, and leukemia, further demonstrate that the method presented in this paper can be a useful approach to predict disease-miRNA associations.

**Keywords:** disease, miRNA, miRNA-disease association, graph neural networks, similarity measures
